Gene - must not be empty!
       Enter NR when not recorded
       For multi-variant haplotypes use a single comma separated list
       For VARIANT interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’ but if more than one gene is assigned to an interaction use a comma
       e.g. NR x FRS2, SFRP1

Strongest VARIANT-Risk Allele - must not be empty!

VARIANT	- must not be empty!

Proxy VARIANT -	must not be empty!
            Enter NR when not recorded
            For multi-variant haplotypes use a single comma separated list
            For VARIANT interactions separate per interaction using an ‘x’

Independent VARIANT effect allele frequency in controls - only applies to VARIANT interaction associations,
                                                    leave blank for multi-VARIANT and standard associations.
                                                    Value must be present for each effect allele in the interaction,
                                                    NR can be used if not reported e.g. NR x 1.5

Effect element (allele, haplotype or VARIANTxVARIANT interaction) frequency in controls - must not be empty! enter NR if not reported

P-value mantissa - enter p-value mantissa only

P-value exponent - enter p-value exponent only

P-value (Text) - same as in web form

OR per copy or beta (Num) - must be either numeric or empty. If reciprocal is given, program will calculate OR from that.

OR entered (reciprocal)	- must be numeric or empty

OR-type? (Y/N) -	must not be empty!

Multi-VARIANT Haplotype? (Y/N) -	must not be empty!

VARIANT:VARIANT interaction? (Y/N) -	must not be empty!

Confidence Interval - if no CI given but there is a std error, leave blank and program will calculate CI.

Reciprocal confidence interval

Beta unit and direction	 -	must not be empty!

Standard Error	- must be numeric or empty

VARIANT type (novel/known) - must not be empty!

VARIANT Status - only applies to VARIANT interaction associations, leave blank for multi-VARIANT and standard associations.
             Value must be present for each effect allele in the interaction, LL = limited list, GW = genome wide,  NR can be used if not reported.
                                                 e.g. NR x GL,LL x LL

EFO traits - EFO trait ID e.g. EFO_0004328

NOTE:

- "must not be empty" refers to a literally empty cell. "NR" is a perfectly valid entry

- Reciprocal confidence intervals: If OR < 1 and a CI is given, the program will automatically calculate the reciprocal
 CI, provided that *both ends of the CI are greater than 0*! Program can't handle negative CIs, enter that VARIANT manually.

- Separate VARIANT interactions using 'x' e.g. rs4784379-A x rs9804128-G

- Separate haplotypes using ',' e.g. rs7839488, rs4395927, rs9331888
